---
layout: default
title: Thinkpad & Marx Essay (English Class)
date: 2016-03-28
---

I wrote this for my English class and thought this would be some good content to tide things over while I get things to calm down a bit. Definitely going to have a new post incoming shortly. Also, going to use what I learned from building a website for a job to spruce up this place. Probably going to use HTML Kickstart to make this place really pop and maybe throw in some Google Analytics to see how many people are reading and where they're coming from. Anyway, enough of my rambling. Here's the essay (WARNING: Written late at night the day before the due date.)

 The Thinkpad that Propelled Me:

 Spare Technology and Its Impact on My Life

Technology can do wondrous things for one’s self fulfillment and ability to learn. The Internet gives us the ability to connect and absorb information in a manner unprecedented in human history. The advent of the personal computer and the proliferation of free information on programming and other areas of technological expertise has made it so easy to begin one’s journey towards technological professionalism that anyone can do it (although some may not finish the journey). The wide availability of free and open source software has made it possible for individuals with limited resources to have a vast suite of tools to utilize and modify, even becoming the tools of choice for many in the industry. Finally, with this widespread adoption of technology, we have seen a vast market of cheap, second-hand, used, or refurbished computers and related devices being sold, traded, and given away. And it is these devices that make it possible for many to take their first substantial steps into the wider world of computing.  

Roughly 9 months ago, my father showed me the “new” Thinkpad he had purchased from an online vendor. In short, a Thinkpad is a business class laptop, built thick and chunky, and oftentimes affordably priced on online retailer sites after entire divisions of companies wipe them and sell them after upgrading their equipment. They are also excellent devices for running Linux, a free and open source operating system favored by many programmers and other technologically inclined individuals, particularly because of their excellent driver support, solid hardware, and reams of documentation. For months, I had been considering buying a Thinkpad for myself, to use as a “work” computer and to supplement my laptop that was running Windows 10 and used primarily for playing games, watching videos, and listening to music, with a bit of programming and essay-writing when the need arose. And now here was this laptop, with perfect specs for my purposes, sitting in front of me. My father told me that he wanted to use it for CAD work at his machine shop, but that is was slow and did not seem to have the necessary hardware for his needs. I double checked and confirmed this for him. This laptop, perfectly suited for my own needs, had landed in the possession of my father for a purpose it was simply not built to do, and I was fairly disappointed to see a piece of hardware that I so sorely desired go to waste. It was roughly two weeks later that I broached the topic with my father. I asked him what he was going to do with the laptop he had just bought, since it couldn’t do what he wanted, while also hinting that I would be happy to take it off his hands. He remembered how I had mentioned how much I wanted a similar laptop in the past and picked up on my hints and the currently useless position the laptop was in, and told me I could have it. And so, I received a laptop I had been saving up for and desperately wanting, all through a stroke of luck.

The first thing I did was install Linux, wiping away the Windows partition the Thinkpad previously had, and preparing it to be a hard-working, code-writing, and calculation-chugging machine, despite its admittedly meager specs (4 GB of RAM, and a 2.2 GHz Intel i5 CPU). I loaded it up with all the necessary tools, working late into the night and reveling in both my fortune and the joy of setting up a new machine that only a complete and utter geek would feel. It felt like a dream. Here was this secondary computer, on which I could do all of my programming work, fool around without worrying that I would be without a computer if I made a mistake, and could finally get around to installing and learning Linux on decent hardware, a task that I had begun earlier, on an abysmally small and slow netbook. It was the perfect launchpad for my further delving into all things technological. I began learning more about Linux and programming and experimenting more than I ever had on any of my old machines. I tweaked my text editor for optimal programming efficiency and comfort (a task I still work at constantly). I reduced my boot time from over a minute to an average of 20 seconds with all sorts of kernel level editing and service loading tricks. I slowly began making that Thinkpad my new computing home, endlessly customized to my liking. And in time, it has become an almost perfect tool for every task I can feasibly throw at it. In fact, it has supplanted my old laptop as my primary computer. I now do roughly 99% of all my general computer usage on my Thinkpad, despite its inferior specs, smaller screen size, and general inability to play most games. In fact, I am currently using it to write this essay, while using a variety of other, similarly scavenged bits of technology, ranging from my vintage mechanical keyboard (an artifact of the year 1989), a thrift store monitor from my roommate who moved to the east coast, and my mouse, which came with the family’s previous desktop computer and which I have been using for over six years. In the grand scheme of things, my Thinkpad could not have found a more perfect home, surrounded by similarly second-hand and generally well-used technology.

At a superficial level, my Thinkpad fulfills a relative appetite, which Marx describes as “[owing] their origin to certain social structures and certain conditions of production and communication,” for example the “capitalistic structure of society” (HB 122). And this is essentially true. While my essentially third-hand Thinkpad is by no means a shiny new Macbook or a glossy gaming laptop, with thousands of dollars of parts, it certainly represents a certain affluence, as I am able to have a laptop of my own, in addition to one I bought a few year prior. In particular, it represents my desire for more “stuff” that fits my interests, which is a hallmark of a capitalistic society. The fact that I was able to get this one for free just makes the deal even sweeter. I lost nothing a gained something that I had been wanting for a long while. However, on another level, it also represents a constant appetite. I wanted a Thinkpad as a means for me to experiment and learn. It has served that purpose excellently, enabling me to fulfill myself and enrich myself with a wide range of technological skills. In doing so, I have gained a sort of self-consciousness, which Marx describes as the means by which man gets on the “[path] to not only the truth of himself, but also of his world” (HB 123). Even after so much learning, I know that I stand relatively low in my field. I know that there is still so much that I have not even begun to learn or understand adequately. Furthermore, I am not afraid of this lack of knowledge. I embrace it, as it gives me the motivation and the drive to push myself further and to learn ever more every day. I know that the only way to actualize myself and to better my position in the world, as well as understand the world that I wish to work in, is to work hard and do bigger and better things every chance I get. It is only through this path that I may gain the knowledge that I seek, as such things do not simply come to people. It must be earned through hours of work and study, irregardless of one’s position in society. It is this knowledge and this drive that will enable me to work my way into the in-group that I wish to make into my achieved status: that of the technologists and “doers” of the world. I want to make a difference with my skills, and is only through self-actualization and the pursuit of knowledge that I may move beyond my surroundings and current status to become such a thing.

In conclusion, receiving my Thinkpad has been a catalyst for many events and realizations in my life. It has made experimentation and digging into the depths of Linux possible. It has made me realize my place in the world of technology and how little I know, but perhaps more importantly, how vast the amount of “known unknowns” there are in that respect. To explain, I have heard one’s knowledge of a subject described as being made up of four components: the “known knowns.” or that which you know you know, the “unknown knowns,” or that which you were not aware you knew, “the known unknowns,” or that which you know you are not familiar with, and the “unknown unknowns,” or that which you are completely unaware of your ignorance of. In short, any path of self-enlightenment seeks to reduce the amount of “unknown unknowns” and to increase the amount of the other three. For, even if one does not know something, but is aware that that they are ignorant, they can pursue the path of education and insight, but if they are so ignorant that they are unaware of their ignorance, they will be unable to learn anything beyond a certain point. And it is with understanding that I am somewhat comforted by the window into the larger world of technology I have been afforded. I know that I am mere steps above a neophyte, but I am aware of my lack of knowledge and this gives me a path towards success and the status I wish to achieve.
