---
layout: default
title: "Updates"
date: 2016-04-01
---

So, I've been pretty busy lately. Essentially, I've been working on my first website job, and generally focusing hard on school. But I've been learning a lot. Between working on The Odin Project (I've taken a bit of a detour though. I'm just working through a Rails book for that section, since I wasn't too happy with the material they were suggesting.) and reading up on algorithms and starting on The Mythical Man Month, I've really been taking in a lot of info.

Anyway, on the subject of the website I was working on, I recently finished up the initial job for a simple website for my dad's shop. It's a pretty simple site, in the sense that it doesn't really have a backend, but I'm pretty proud of how it turned out. I might do some optimization, like far as making thumbnails for images in the gallery or making a good mobile layout, but the site is essentially finished and I'm pretty proud of it, as far as first projects go. I built it with [HTML Kickstart](http://www.99lime.com/elements/), which made slapping together a prototype and then going through and tweaking things really easy. It also came with a fair bit of prewritten jQuery and JS stuff that I added onto to make repeating elements, like my header and footer, load on each page. I also got a chance to learn how to set up an Apache server correctly, using Fedora 22 on a Linode. It was a nice experience. I had used Apache in the past, but I had never actually gone through and set up a website, along with all the other security things I needed to do, like setting up fail2ban and iptables. Anyway, the site can be found [here](https://omegaprecision.org), and hopefully will be climbing the Google indexes shortly.

tl;dr, I've been super busy with working on a website and school, but now that I've finished up that website, I've got some free time to get back to Rails and working on my own site. More to come later.
